Design Document: Databricks to Neo4j Connector & Knowledge Graph Implementation

1. Project Overview

This document outlines the architecture, data model, and design considerations for integrating Databricks (Unity Catalog) with Neo4j to build a Knowledge Graph. The solution aims to enable advanced data analytics, relationship modeling, and enhanced data insights.

2. Objectives

Ingest data from Databricks (CCW Tables) into Neo4j using various approaches.

Design and implement a Knowledge Graph for data analysis.

Enable node and relationship modeling to derive actionable insights.

Provide automation for regular data updates.

3. Architecture Overview

3.1 Architecture Components

Databricks (Unity Catalog): Source of structured data (CCW Tables).

Neo4j Database: Graph database for storing nodes and relationships.

Data Pipeline: Ingestion layer using JDBC connectors, Neo4j Spark Connector, and CSV-based manual ingestion.

Visualization Layer: Web interface for querying and visualizing the Knowledge Graph.

4. Data Ingestion Approaches

This section illustrates three different approaches to connect Databricks with Neo4j for data ingestion.

4.1 UML Diagrams for Data Ingestion Approaches

4.1.1 Approach 1: Databricks to Neo4j via Spark Connector



Process Flow:

Databricks reads CCW tables from Unity Catalog.

Uses the Neo4j Spark Connector to write data directly to Neo4j.

Nodes and relationships are created based on the data model.

Visualization layer enables querying through a web interface.

4.1.2 Approach 2: CSV Export and Manual Ingestion



Process Flow:

Data exported from Databricks as CSV files.

Files are manually uploaded to a storage location accessible by Neo4j.

APOC procedures in Neo4j are used to load CSV data.

Cypher queries define node creation and relationship mapping.

4.1.3 Approach 3: JDBC Connection



Process Flow:

JDBC driver installed in Databricks.

Secure connection established using Databricks Tokens.

Data fetched from Databricks is ingested into Neo4j via APOC load.jdbc.

Automated jobs ensure periodic data refresh.

5. UML Diagrams

5.1 Component Diagram


The component diagram showcases how Databricks interacts with Neo4j through various ingestion methods.

5.2 Sequence Diagram


Shows the sequence of actions for each ingestion approach:

User triggers data extraction.

Data flows from Databricks to Neo4j through the chosen approach.

Neo4j processes the data to create nodes and relationships.

Users query the Knowledge Graph through the web interface.

5.3 Class Diagram (Data Model)


Node Types:

User: user_id, name, email

Product: product_id, name, category

Transaction: transaction_id, purchase_date, amount

Relationships:

(:User)-[:PURCHASED]->(:Product)

(:User)-[:REFERRED]->(:User)

(:Product)-[:BELONGS_TO]->(:Category)

5.4 Deployment Diagram


Illustrates the infrastructure setup, including:

Databricks Cluster

Neo4j Database Instances (Dev, Sandbox)

Secure Connections (JDBC, Spark Connector)

Job Scheduler (for automation)

6. Automation & Scheduling

Utilize Databricks Jobs for extraction and transformation.

Use Neo4j APOC for bulk data loads and incremental updates.

Automate data refresh cycles using scheduled jobs.

7. Security Considerations

Use Databricks Tokens for authentication.

Apply role-based access control in Neo4j.

Encrypt connections using SSL/TLS protocols.

8. Implementation Plan

Phase

Task

Duration

Phase 1

Requirements Gathering

1 Week

Phase 2

Architecture & Data Model Design

2 Weeks

Phase 3

Pipeline Development

3 Weeks

Phase 4

Testing & Validation

2 Weeks

Phase 5

Deployment & Monitoring

1 Week

9. Testing & Validation

Validate data consistency between Databricks and Neo4j.

Execute sample Cypher queries to verify nodes and relationships.

Test automation schedules and error handling.

10. Future Enhancements

Incorporate machine learning models for predictive insights.

Extend the Knowledge Graph to integrate with external data sources.

Enable real-time data ingestion through streaming pipelines.

11. Conclusion

This design document serves as a roadmap to develop a robust, secure, and automated data pipeline between Databricks and Neo4j, enabling advanced analytics through a Knowledge Graph.

12. Appendices

Appendix A: Sample Cypher Queries.

Appendix B: PySpark Code Snippets.

Appendix C: UML Diagrams (Component, Sequence, Class, Deployment).

✅ Next Steps:

Finalize data models and UML diagrams.

Build initial ingestion pipelines for all three approaches.

Prepare monitoring and alerting mechanisms.

Review security and compliance standards.

