Prerequisites for Developer Access
The following are the tools and assumptions required for developers to work on creating Databricks applications using the SPARTA Framework.

1. Desktop Developer Tools
Purpose: Ensure developers have a consistent environment for building, testing, and deploying Databricks applications using SPARTA.
2. Required Tools and Software
Visual Studio Code:

Lightweight code editor for editing Python, YAML, and configuration files.
Recommended Extensions: Python, YAML, and Git extensions for enhanced productivity.
Git CLI:

For managing source control and performing Git operations directly from the command line.
Ensure proper configuration of Git username, email, and authentication (e.g., SSH keys or personal access tokens).
Databricks CLI:

Used for automating interactions with Databricks workspace via command line.
Setup: Configure Databricks CLI by running:
bash
Copy code
databricks configure  
Provide the necessary workspace URL and authentication token.
Python (3.8 or later):

Required for developing and testing SPARTA framework applications.
Ensure the necessary libraries are installed by executing:
bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt  
SPARTA Framework Components:

Download and install the SPARTA library or modules required for developing Databricks applications.
Follow the SPARTA framework documentation for additional dependencies and configuration.
3. Environment Setup
Operating System: Ensure compatibility with tools (Windows/macOS/Linux).
Access Permissions:
GitHub repository access for cloning SPARTA framework repositories.
Databricks workspace access with appropriate permissions for creating applications and workflows.
Required tokens or credentials to interact with Databricks and other APIs.
Networking:
Verify access to required endpoints (e.g., Databricks REST API, artifact repositories).
4. Testing and Validation
To ensure everything is set up correctly:

Clone the SPARTA repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone <SPARTA-repository-url>  
Validate Databricks CLI connection:
bash
Copy code
databricks workspace ls  
Run sample SPARTA application:
Execute a test SPARTA application or script to confirm dependencies and frameworks are properly configured.
By meeting these prerequisites, developers can efficiently create and deploy Databricks applications using the SPARTA Framework.






Key Accomplishments
SPARTA Library Installation and Publishing to Artifactory

Successfully installed the SPARTA library and published it to Artifactory.
Blocker: Artifactory credentials were initially preventing the publication.
Resolution: Blocker resolved, and the CI pipeline execution is now working as expected.
CI Pipeline Working with GitHub Actions

Integrated GitHub Actions and GitHub runners for the CI pipeline.
Acceptance Criteria Met: Both linting and unit tests are executing successfully.
Blocker: Initial setup was causing failure during integration.
Resolution: After adjustments, the pipeline is now stable and performing as expected.
Shallow Cloning for Delta Tables in Databricks

Scripts for shallow cloning Delta tables in Databricks are prepared and reviewed as part of initial steps.
Blocker: Final testing and integration with larger datasets.
Resolution: Scripts reviewed and minor adjustments are underway.
Databricks Assets Bundling Configuration and Setup

80% of the setup for Databricks assets bundling has been completed.
Blocker: Creating a second databricks.yaml configuration for asset bundling is still in progress.
Resolution: The configuration file for DBX asset bundling is being finalized.
SQL Parser with Unit Test Cases

SQL Parser functionality with unit test cases using Pandas DataFrames and PySpark code is in progress.
Blocker: Optimizing performance for large-scale datasets.
Resolution: Unit tests are being fine-tuned and will be completed shortly.









Subject: SPARTA Framework Documentation Update

Hi Team,

I have updated the SPARTA Framework documentation with the following key points:

Developer Workstation Setup

Detailed instructions for setting up the developer environment.
Key Accomplishments

I’ve outlined the tasks we’ve completed so far, highlighting our progress in the areas we’ve worked on, along with the blockers we’ve addressed.
Next Steps

The next steps we will be focusing on, including the tasks in progress and upcoming priorities.
Additional Dependencies and Configuration

I have documented the required steps for handling additional dependencies and configuration as part of the framework.
Demo Preparation

Details on the steps for preparing the demo to showcase the current progress and results.
Please take a look at the updated documentation and let me know if you have any questions or need further clarification.
